[Go] Concepts of scrabble (#234)
exercism/v3: languages/go/reference/exercise-concepts/scrabble.md

# Concepts of Scrabble

There are different approaches to scrabble which are in the different categories below. Common concepts for all approaches are in general.

## General
- zero value variable declaration: The `score` variable for the total score needs initialization to `0`.
- strings: lower and upper case letters should be treated equally (`ToUpper`/`ToLower`).
- range loop over string: using a `range` loop on a string is a bit special. Its index counts bytes, its value is a rune.
- for loop: This exercise can also be solved with a `for loop` -- although `range` is preferable here.
- runes: using a range loop over a string will return a rune.
- bytes: using a for loop comes with indexing into a string which returns a `byte`.
- unicode: instead of the entire string (`strings`) a single `rune` can be transformed `ToUpper`/`ToLower`.

> - numbers: adding a value to an existing sum.

Reviewer: including special operators like ++ and +=

- comments: comment on exported function should be present. Best also on package itself, but that is more optional.
- ignore values: In the `range` loop the index is not needed and has to be ignored with a `_` (underscore).

## Approach: Switch

- switch: uses switch to get the score per letter
- functions: makes the code nicer to extract the big switch

## Aproach: map

> - map: is used to store the score per letter. Map lookup. Map definition with content.

Reviewer: with a map defined using string, and trying to lookup with rune: conversion between types ?

Reviewer 2: defining map outside function will ensure it is only called once

Author: @hans-d: map should be `map[run]int`

Author: But of course some might use type conversion. I'll add it

- globals: The `map` containing the scores is effectively static and should not be defined on each call to the function. Making it a global is one approach to solve this.
- init function: some use an `init` function to initialize the map from something faster to type.

## Approach: Slice

Some take the `slice` approach as it is fastest.

- slice: a slice is used to store the scores in alphabetical order.
- rune maths: a rune is just a number. This is used to convert a rune into a slice index: `r - 'A'`

> - if condition: if using a slice, an out of bounds index would `panic`. So best to check for unknown indexes.

Reviewer: error handling / panic as concept

# Concepts of Scrabble

> There are different approaches to scrabble which are in the different categories below. Common concepts for all approaches are in general.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are different approaches to Scrabble which are in the different categories below. Common concepts for all approaches are in 'General'.
```

## General

> - zero value variable declaration: The `score` variable for the total score needs initialization to `0`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- zero value variable declaration: The `score` variable for the total score needs initialization to `0` (idiomatically with `var score int`).
```

- strings: lower and upper case letters should be treated equally (`ToUpper`/`ToLower`).

> - range loop over string: using a `range` loop on a string is a bit special. Its index counts bytes, its value is a rune.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- range loop over string: using `range` on a string is a bit special. It returns the byte index of each rune, and the rune value itself.
```

> - for loop: This exercise can also be solved with a `for loop` -- although `range` is preferable here.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- for loop: This exercise can also be solved with a `for i := 0...` loop -- although `for range` is preferable here.
```

- runes: using a range loop over a string will return a rune.

> - bytes: using a for loop comes with indexing into a string which returns a `byte`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- bytes: using a for loop comes with indexing into a string which returns a `byte`. In general, this is unsafe, unless you can guarantee that the string contains only ASCII runes. Prefer `range` on strings, or conversion to a `[]rune`.
```

- unicode: instead of the entire string (`strings`) a single `rune` can be transformed `ToUpper`/`ToLower`.
- numbers: adding a value to an existing sum. (`++`, `+=`)
- comments: comment on exported function should be present. Best also on package itself, but that is more optional.
- ignore values: In the `range` loop the index is not needed and has to be ignored with a `_` (underscore).

## Approach: Switch

- switch: uses switch to get the score per letter

> - functions: makes the code nicer to extract the big switch

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- functions: makes the code nicer to extract the big switch, but the function call overhead adds about 30% to the benchmark time
```

> ## Aproach: map

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Approach: map
```

- map: is used to store the score per letter. Map lookup. Map definition with content.
- globals: The `map` containing the scores is effectively static and should not be defined on each call to the function. Making it a global is one approach to solve this.

> - init function: some use an `init` function to initialize the map from something faster to type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- init function: some use an `init` function to initialize the map from something faster to type, but this is lazy; code should be optimised for the reader, not the writer.
```

- type conversion: some might use a `map[string]int` and need to convert from `rune` to `string`.

## Approach: Slice

> Some take the `slice` approach as it is fastest.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some take the `slice` approach as it is fastest. However, a map or switch is more natural, and at this stage of learning, we should prefer naturalness and simplicity.
